Esophageal Cancer Survivor Stories
Brought to you by: The Salgi Esophageal Cancer Research Foundation

Esophageal Cancer Survivor Stories written and published by The Salgi Esophageal Cancer Research Foundation.

© 2018 The Salgi Esophageal Cancer Research Foundation, SALGI.org. All rights reserved. No portion of this book may be reproduced in any form without permission from the publisher, except as permitted by U.S. copyright law. For permissions contact: info@salgi.org.  

This eBook is for general informational purposes only. The author or contributing stories’ authors are not medical professionals and nothing in this publication constitutes medical advice. The materials presented in this publication in no way substitute medical counseling. You must not avoid or delay medical treatment because of anything contained in this publication.  This eBook is not intended to be a substitute for the medical advice of a licensed physician. The reader should consult with their doctor in any matters relating to his/her health.  This book is not intended as a substitute for the doctor’s advice. You should regularly consult a physician on matters relating to your health, particularly with respect to any symptoms that may require diagnosis or medical attention.  This eBook contains information that is intended to be personal experiences with esophageal cancer. It is presented AS IS. Always consult your doctor for your individual needs.  


Table of Contents

Forward: Sur·vi·vor
Survivor Story: Daniel Lazo
Survivor Story: Yasmine Swisshelm
Survivor Story: Marcos Garcia Jr.
Survivor Story: Colleen Connelly
Survivor Story: Chris Abel
Survivor Story: Michael Pignataro
Survivor Story: Keith Solsbury
Survivor Story: Vickie Brooks
Esophageal Cancer Fast Facts






Forward: Sur·vi·vor 

sərˈvīvər, noun
 The following survivor stories have brought us so much inspiration and we are honored to share these stories with you and with as many people as possible.
While esophageal cancer does have lower survival rates compared to other cancers, it is our hope that those facing a diagnosis and their families also have access to testimony that esophageal cancer can be beat!   
Many of those who have shared their story did not “fit the mold” when they were diagnosed.  There is a misconception that esophageal cancer “only” affects older, overweight, Caucasian males.  However, esophageal cancer is considered one of the fastest growing and deadliest cancers.  Due to this fact, it is also rapidly affecting both men and women of all ages.
These stories highlight the importance of early detection, routine screening, quality treatment and the significance of staying positive and having hope when you feel hopeless.   
Thank you to all of the survivors and/or their family member(s) who have shared their story! To those who are facing a diagnosis or currently battling esophageal cancer, we send you our very best well wishes for health, healing, strength and hope and to all who have passed away, we will forever hold you close in our hearts.  



Survivor Story: Daniel Lazo

Male, Age of Diagnosis: 25 years old

Hello my name is Daniel. I just turned 27 [in 2018, I found out I had esophageal cancer in November, 2016 (25yrs old) and went through treatment in March, 2016.  Diagnosed Stage 3 EC in Boston, MA at Mass General Hospital.  
To be honest, I went through everything really well. I wasn’t afraid and I took everything very well, especially chemo and radiation. Only threw up when eating Taco Bell, lol. Only tough part was being on my own, going to appointments on my own. But it’s getting better.  Just stay positive.



Survivor Story: Yasmine Swisshelm

Female, Age of Diagnosis: 29 years old

My name is Yasmine, 31 years old from southern California.  I was diagnosed at the age of 29, [with] 3rd stage [esophageal cancer].  [I had] 25 rounds of radiation, 7 rounds of chemo.
I underwent 3 major surgeries, removed my esophagus and a piece of my colon is in its place, as well as part of my stomach.  
I had major complications and died twice, they brought me back to life.  I’m married with two little girls! 



Survivor Story: Marcos Garcia Jr. 

Male, Age of Diagnosis: 75 years old

Marcos Garcia Jr. was diagnosed with a rare esophageal cancer, Stage III, at the age of 75. 
It was contained in the lower part of the esophagus where they were able to do an Esophagectomy that removed his entire esophagus and a portion of his stomach. They were able to pull up his stomach to create a new esophagus. No chemo or radiation was needed. 
Mr. Garcia has had aspiration pneumonia multiple times due to the difficulty he has swallowing when the opening of his esophagus begins to close (due to scarring). This has required him to have dilation procedures approximately every 4 weeks to keep the esophagus open; enough to eat solid foods. 
He has since lost a lot of weight but was able to regain some of it through a feeding tube. He has only been able to eat and tolerate very minimal amounts of food and drinks. He continues to receive most nutrients through a feeding tube but is also able to enjoy some foods and drinks. 
He has a close support group of family and friends and is staying active by way of crafts and wood working.



Survivor Story: Colleen Connelly

Female, Age of Diagnosis: 29 years old

In March of 2016, at just 29 years old, I was diagnosed with Stage 2 Esophageal Cancer; a year that would forever rock my entire world. I had been a long time sufferer of heartburn and acid reflux, but never thought to go and get it checked out. 
It wasn’t until I experienced severe stomach pains, right below my sternum, that sent me to doctors, where lo and behold, they found a tumor where my stomach and esophagus intersect. I underwent esophagectomy surgery followed by fertility treatments, chemotherapy and radiation. It was a long road and a tremendous struggle, but I had to keep focusing on the “todays” so that I could have many more “tomorrows.” 
When you’re diagnosed with cancer, you realize 2 major things: you’re stronger than you ever imagined and you’re loved much more than you know. I could not have made it through 2016 without wonderful family and friends. 
Esophageal Cancer actually changed my life and made me learn how to live a happier and healthier life. I definitely learned how to be a stronger, more appreciative person through this experience. I now try to live by the slogan, “nothing is impossible because the word itself says: I’m possible.”  



Survivor Story: Chris Abel

Male, Age of Diagnosis: 35 years old

My name is Chris Abel and I was diagnosed with Stage 3 Adenocarcinoma of the esophagus in March of 2015. It was after years of dealing with heartburn, months of difficulty swallowing, and just a week before my daughter was born.  
Less than a week after the arrival of my beautiful motivation, I was sitting in a Helen & Harry Gray Cancer Center in Hartford undergoing radiation and chemotherapy at just 35 years old. 
Over the next nine months, I would endure six weeks of chemotherapy and radiation in Hartford and a full esophagectomy at Brigham & Women’s Hospital in Boston before heading back to Hartford for another four months of extensive chemo in hopes of beating what had turned my family’s life upside down. 
Esophageal cancer pushed my wife and me against the wall at a time when we should have been enjoying the most amazing moment of our life together. There were many sleepless nights, lots of what ifs and many life adjustments but I am beyond grateful to have celebrated 3 years of clean scans [in 2018.]



Survivor Story: Michael Pignataro

Male, Age of Diagnosis: 67 years old

Mike was an Army helicopter pilot who lost his left leg below the knee while flying in Vietnam in 1969.  He regained his flight status, flew again in the Army and after separating from service, went on to a career flying helicopters in civilian life.  
I point this out because it has a direct connection to Mike’s discovery of esophageal cancer.  
During his long career of flying for both corporations and governmental agencies, Mike would receive no less than three physicals per year.  After retiring, moving from New Jersey to Rhode Island, these frequent physicals decreased in frequency.  In 2013 Mike realized that it had been almost seven years since receiving a colonoscopy and endoscopy, which he immediately scheduled.  Test results found he had stage one esophageal cancer.  
After visiting specialists in several states, he decided to have Dr. Ng in RI Hospital perform the esophagectomy surgery.  Quite invasive but the most proven path for a successful prognosis, Mike decided to undergo the procedure.  
While not without some life changing eating dictates, Mike is cancer free and eats most everything he did prior to the cancer, able to live his life with his family and plan for the future.



Survivor Story: Keith Solsbury

Male, Age of Diagnosis: 43 years old

I am Maggie, Keith's wife.  We found out when we first got married Keith had GERD, the GI doctor told us to take Tums, avoid certain foods, never once told us heartburn could cause Barrett's or esophageal cancer. That was 24 yrs. ago. 12 years later, Keith got really sick camping [and we] had to drive him to the hospital. He was admitted and that is when Dr. Harold Schwartz, in Derby, CT, did an endoscope and the results came back that he had Barrett's. {The doctor] put him on acid [reflux] medication and told him he needed to be scoped yearly. Still not knowing that it could turn to cancer.  
Being in the medical field since I was 19 years old, never in my life did I hear that chronic heartburn could cause cancer. "Older males that drank heavily, smoked [and were] overweight get esophageal cancer". Wrong! 
December, 2005, Keith went for his yearly scope.  Then on January 3, 2006, we got the call that Keith needed to make an appointment. We went in that day and the doctors [said] I am sorry [he has] adenocarcinoma of the esophagus.
 His surgery was February 1, 2006.  They took out his complete esophagus, 3/4 of his stomach and attached it at the top of his neck and pulled the intestines up. 
The first 2 weeks he was in intensive care and they were preparing me that he might not make it.  I prayed every day and on February 14, 2006, the most romantic day of my life, he got better, beat all the infections and came off the respirator.  They let me stay in the room and he squeaked out the words I LOVE YOU, once the tube came out, he cried I cried and the whole hospital team cried. 
He recovered quickly after that and was home 2 days later. He did well until he started chemo and that really took a toll on him.  The kids and I stayed strong, they were his caregivers while I worked and then I took over when I got home until the morning. In August, 2006, my son called me and said dad just is not right. I didn’t hesitate; I sent an ambulance to get him and bring him to Yale. If my son didn’t call, he would have been gone when I got home. He developed a cardiomyopathy (virus that attacked his heart) and when I met him at the ER, he was critical. Keith has had many complications over the years since diagnosis but has fought and overcame them.  
Each year we learn more and more about EC and do what we can to help others get awareness out. We are here, we are still fighting many battles, financial, still some health problems with Keith. Just know that people are surviving. Find the doctors with the most knowledge in treatment of Barrett's and esophageal cancer and never give up hope. 



Survivor Story: Vickie Brooks

Female, Age of Diagnosis: 55 years old

In February, 2014, I went in for my 2-year appointment to check my Barrett’s.  I got a call back that it came back as high grade dysplasia. I was referred to UCLA Medical Center to get it checked further. 
On March 7th, at 7:30 am, I got a call from the Dr. who informed me I had Adenocarcinoma Cancer of the esophagus.  I had two options: the 1st one had a 50/50 chance of survival and the 2nd had a 90% chance. 
I took the 90%.  He then put me in contact with Dr. Robert Cameron, Thoracic Surgeon at UCLA Medical Center. Before I go any further, let me add that I cared for my brother during his cancer up to the day he passed away from esophageal cancer! 
Dr. Cameron met with me and my daughter, Christina. He went through everything step by step, I was to have NO CHEMO.. NO RADIATION.. 
He was going to perform a Total Trans Hiatal Esophagectomy, he and a robot called Davinci.  He was going to go in from my mid-section and my neck, remove my esophagus and pull my stomach up to replace it. Crazy, right?!!! It was a risky surgery; there could be a lot of complications, even death. 
We prepared, I put all my affairs in order, talked to my family my children and was ready to do whatever was necessary to live.  On May 12th, I had my surgery, it took 12 hours. 
It was a long, long road back, one I walked with gratitude, respect and love for the doctors and nurses at UCLA and my wonderful family.  I will never forget the day Dr. Cameron came in and said YOU ARE CURED!! YOU WILL NEVER EVER HAVE ESOPHAGEAL CANCER AGAIN. 
Somedays I can’t even believe that I went through it all.  The last time I saw Dr. Cameron, he said my chest x-ray was so good you could hardly tell anymore. That was August, 2017, and then he said you are done here! You do not need to come back and see me. What a feeling it was to be alive and live through it all. 
I have 15 brothers and sisters.  My mother died of cancer.  Five brothers and two sisters have had or have cancer.  Since then, I have lost two siblings and a sister in-law to cancer and my brother is diagnosed with terminal lung cancer. I am currently waiting to find out about my sister, who has just been diagnosed. 
In 2015, I also suffered the sudden loss of my oldest daughter.  I have three children; two daughters and a son.
Last June, I married the love of my life and as of today, I am cancer free and work every day on living my moments like they are my last.  59 ½ and going strong.



Esophageal Cancer Fast Facts:

Esophageal cancer has increased over 600% in the past three decades and is considered the fastest growing cancer in the United States and western world.1
Risk factors include: acid reflux (GERD– chronic heartburn, a common symptom), obesity, poor nutrition, tobacco use and/or smoking, heavy drinking and Barrett’s esophagus.2
Esophageal cancer is one of the deadliest cancers. The 2018 overall 5-yr survival rate is 19.2%.  Stage IV survival rate: 4.8%. 2
There are no standard or routine screenings to detect esophageal cancer in its earlier stages. 2
Symptoms often arise too late, once the cancer has spread; thus making it difficult to treat. 2
Symptoms include: difficulty or pain when swallowing, food getting stuck, regurgitation, chest and/or back pain, chronic heartburn, chronic cough, weight loss and/or hoarse voice. 2
Esophageal cancer research receives very little funding.3,4  

The Salgi Esophageal Cancer Research Foundation is a nonprofit, 501(c)(3) established on November 21, 2011, to raise awareness, encourage early detection and to fund research of esophageal cancer in hopes of a cure™.  The charity funded esophageal cancer research in 2015 and has since received over 20 requests for funding. For more information, please visit: SALGI.org



1. Brown, Linda Morris, Susan S. Devesa, and Wong-Ho Chow. “Incidence of Adenocarcinoma of the Esophagus Among White Americans by Sex, Stage, and Age.” JNCI Journal of the National Cancer Institute 100.16 (2008): 1184–1187. PMC. Web. 17 July 2018.
2. “Esophageal Cancer.” National Cancer Institute, www.cancer.gov/types/esophageal.
3. “Esophageal Cancer Research.” National Cancer Institute, www.cancer.gov/types/esophageal/research.
4. “Current Grants for Other Cancer Types. Current as of March 1, 2018” American Cancer Society, www.cancer.org/research/currently-funded-cancer-research/research-grants-other-cancer-types.html.


1
PUBLISHED OCTOBER 2020
Office of Experiential Learning
Center for Teaching and Learning
Our MCC
Breast Cancer
Survivors’
Stories 
2
Kathy Gurin’s Story
Kathy is a faculty member in the Health Sciences division at Mott Community College.
Kathy’s story was published in 1995 by McLaren Hospital and is being presented here
for educational purposes.
Five years ago, Kathryn (Kathy) Gurin was in a race for her life. At the age of 37, she
battled breast cancer and won. This fall, determined to win another race and
encourage other victims of the disease, she crossed the finish line at the Detroit Free
Press Marathon. But she didn't do it alone.
Her friends and co-workers at Lapeer Regional Hospital
were with her every step of the way. On the day of the
race, they made an impressive team as they crossed from
Canada into the United States proudly displaying their
sponsor's name, McLaren Health Care Corporation.
It was just one of the many events McLaren Health Care
Corporation employees were involved in during 1996.
Eager to tell their stories of hope, and support many worthwhile causes, the people of
McLaren ran road races, spoke before Kathy Gurin groups of all ages, served on boards,
painted homes, participated in parades and volunteered thousands of hours to benefit
others. This quest is strengthened by the McLaren mission to care for the communities
and people in the expanding region it serves. The same team spirit needed to
accomplish everyday medical miracles within its doctors' offices, specialty centers,
hospitals and home care services is undauntedly displayed on the streets of our cities
throughout the year.
Kathy learned first-hand how the spirit of McLaren can affect the outcome of a lifethreatening medical malady. It was that spirit which brought her to the finish line in
Detroit where she and Robin McIntosh, her co-worker and training mentor, clung to
one another sharing tears of joy at her accomplishment. It was a far cry from the Kathy
who was devastated when a self-examination in May of 1991 detected a cancerous 
3
tumor in her left breast. Ratan Rajani, M.D., performed successful mastectomy surgery
at Lapeer Regional Hospital.
"I had always been active before my surgery, participating in various sporting activities
such as skiing and running," she expounded. "Following the surgery, however, I found
myself at a slow crawl". Unable to lift her shoulder, she felt exhausted and routinely
sick following chemotherapy treatments. "My activity level ceased to be and I had, in
essence, given up!"
She was fortunate, however, to have a wonderful family and group of friends. Her
husband, Robert Cramer, and her three stepchildren and three grandchildren were a
tremendous support to her. But it was Robin McIntosh, a McLaren physician service
representative, who literally took Kathy under her wing and guided her flight to
recovery.
"Robin, a past winner of the Detroit race walking event, was determined not to let me
become a couch potato," Kathy explained. "She introduced me to the art of race
walking, starting me off gently in a local three-mile race."
Robin continued to nurture Kathy and helped her develop her official race walking
style. "I grew stronger physically and emotionally through walking and soon was
competing and even winning some race walking events,” stated Kathy.
In the eight-mile Mackinac Island race Sept. 8, Robin and Kathy took first and second
places, respectively. Encouraged, the two set their sights on competing in the 26-mile
Detroit Free Press Marathon the following month. While training, however, Kathy
"blew out" her knee.
That familiar team spirit at McLaren that had gotten her this far was sparked once
again. This time the Sports Medicine Department at Lapeer Regional Medical Center
went into action. They guided her through a series of physical therapy sessions while
teaching her stretching techniques. Four weeks before the race Kathy was back on her
feet again.
4
On race day the two donned their McLaren Health Care Corporation shirts, pinned on
their numbers and began a steady gait from the Canadian border. Although it was
grueling, Kathy never gave up. Robin's second place finish in the female division
seemed anticlimactic compared to watching Kathy cross the line after five hours and
nine minutes on the course. "It was exciting for her to see that I had made it," said
Kathy. "We cried together at the finish line."
Thanks to the spirit of McLaren people and their guiding forces which led to this
moment, it was the perfect ending to Kathy's five-year anniversary victory celebration
over cancer.
While coping with the disease she continued to work and complete a five-year master's
degree program at Eastern Michigan University in Educational Leadership. Noting that
cancer gives you a reason to live life to the fullest she even tried a new sport, skydiving!
Often she uses her inspiring message of hope and determination to educate and
comfort others. "I'm an example, especially to young women. Do the right thing, don't
ignore any symptoms of breast cancer. You can get through it and lead a wonderful,
normal life."
“I grew stronger physically and emotionally through walking and soon
was competing and even winning some race walking events."
5
Dr. Beverly Walker Griffea
Dr. Beverly Walker Griffea is the President of Mott Community College. This story was
written and published with permission by Dr. Beverly Walker Griffea.
Suddenly there was no air. I could see his mouth
moving. But there was no comprehension of sound.
What did he say? My mind felt like I was trapped in
some sort of third dimension that left me between
reality and a really bad dream. What did he say?
Come on Beverly focus. Pay attention.
Stage 2 Breast Cancer? But how could that be?
I had a mammogram in January and my annual exam
with a breast check-up in February, 2010. My doctor
declared I was in excellent health! “Excellent health,”
she said. I had never had a doctor say that before and
I felt good.
Everything was lining up nicely in my life. My son was graduating from high school in
June. I was ready to take my next professional step...a college presidency.
I attended the AACC National Conference that April in Seattle with expectancy. My plan
was to attend the Preconvention Workshop: Gateway to the Presidency, network at the
conference and learn from the myriad of forums.
One morning in the hotel, I felt a lump in my nipple. It was in such an odd place I
immediately called the doctor's office from Seattle. I am sure when she looked at my
records--Clear mammogram--Clean bill of health in February--she thought this is just
another one of Beverly's lump in breast scares. (I have had lumpy breasts since
attending undergrad at Oklahoma State University.) So she didn't immediately agree to
see me. She put me in the rotation.
6
I got in to see her in May and she didn't think it was anything, but to be sure she sent
me to have an ultrasound. And then suddenly, I found myself creeping in to be the
reluctant star of a really scary Twilight Zone episode.
I was sitting in a radiologist office waiting for the results of my biopsy. The first thing I
thought was I didn't know they had offices. When he came in he began to speak very
deliberate and fast. My mind was stuck on the first six words though. You have stage 2
Breast Cancer. But in my haze he had moved on sharing a lot of words that I couldn't
comprehend. As he left he said it will be a hard year, but you will make it through fine.
My new path was not the one I was expecting. It was a road I had NEVER thought I
would travel. A mastectomy immediately. Five months of almost weekly chemo until
the last dose. I felt like I was going to die the day before Christmas Eve. Bloated. No
hair. Little feeling in my feet and hands. Food tasted like tin. Being stuck with a needle,
it seemed like daily. Taking medicine at a specific time to counteract the chemo. Crying
at the drop of a hat. Not out of physical pain, but emotional pain. It was hard to smile.
Out of the haze, I decided to call the American Cancer Society. I talked with a very nice
lady that registered me for everything. She sent me everything.
For a person like me information was everything. So I read all the literature. It became
my lifeline for knowledge.
I took a friend (AAWCC Board Member, Deborah Fontaine) with me to attend the Look
Good. Feel Better program. She was my buffer. But the cosmetologists that donated
their time to give cancer patients a free make over were so kind and compassionate I
stopped feeling like I had cancer. I felt normal for that brief period.
It seemed like we were all at a Mary Kay party as we said no that's not your color. Ooh
now that looks nice. And to top it off we got to look at the TLC products and take home
a wig, cosmetics and other donated items straight from top companies. The most
important thing for me was that for that time period we could smile. So, don't tell 
7
anyone, but I went twice. The second time by myself. And that experience kept me
going during the bleak times.
The American Cancer Society is more than a commercial or something you donate to so
you can feel good about yourself. The organization stands in the gap for millions that
cannot help themselves. The volunteers are kind, caring and compassionate people that
help. They helped me become a survivor, become a college president and I am grateful
that they were there when I called.
October is breast cancer awareness month. Please increase your knowledge and
awareness of this potentially devastating disease.
Janet Westhoff
Janet Westhoff is a retired faculty member of the Health Sciences division at Mott
Community College. This story was written and published with the permission of Janet
Westhoff.
It was one year and one day after 9/11 that I received my diagnosis of breast cancer,
but I don’t think that date was really prophetic. I think I already knew my biopsy would
be positive.
Anyway, that started me on a long road I never thought I’d travel - I joined a club that
isn’t very exclusive. Since September 12, 2002, I have met so many people who were
“The American Cancer Society is more than a commercial or something you
donate to so you can feel good about yourself. The organization stands in the
gap for millions that cannot help themselves.”
8
breast cancer patients in treatment, breast cancer survivors, and future breast cancer
hosts. We all travel the same road to become a “survivor”.
My breast cancer was atypical in that it wasn’t found on mammogram. In fact, I’d had
my annual screening about 3 months before, and all was good. Not. In August, a lump
led to an ultrasound, where it was detected—in stark black and white.
Yes, I am a nurse. A nurse educator, in fact, but, what I
knew about cancer, and breast cancer, you can put into a
thimble. But, that was not the time for a formal education,
because, you see, I had an overwhelming need—for the first
time in my life—to be a patient. I was in “need-to-know”
mode. Just give me the Readers Digest version!
Fortunately, I landed at my alma mater, the University of
Michigan, at the Cancer Center. I was scanned, screened,
re-biopsied, and put into a treatment plan. That plan
consisted of surgery, chemotherapy, and radiation therapy. The whole enchilada. (I
had hoped to wiggle out of chemo, but that wasn’t part of my UM team’s plan!)
The surgery part was no big deal. Chemo, on the other hand….it kicked me in the rear!
It certainly isn’t pretty. I lost my hair...and my eyelashes and eyebrows. I lost all of my
fingernails and toenails. I was sick. Nausea and vomiting for several days after every
treatment. One of the drugs resulted in heart issues. Another one hastened hearing
loss. Fatigue was the worst, relentless part of it. I can’t begin to describe the fatigue.
It was all-consuming.
Then chemo was done! Four treatments. Every 3 weeks, from November into January.
About 2 weeks later, I started radiation. Again, no big deal. The worst part, for me,
about radiation was that it consisted of daily treatments for 35 sessions. Each session
took about 5 minutes, from start to end. And, I got my first tattoos out of it! Three
little purple markers that guided the beam of radiation to the right target and helped to
avoid vital tissues, like lungs and heart.
9
That’s my cancer story.
Except the most important part of any story lives around the edges and fills in the
details. The most important part of my story rests with the support systems I had. First
and foremost, of course, was my medical team, which consisted of -- my primary care
physician in Flint, the medical and surgical oncologists in Ann Arbor, my radiation
oncologists at the Genesys-Hurley Cancer Center, and my cardiologist. They put up
with so many questions, concerns, and what-ifs!
Family and friends are critical supports to any cancer patient. They carried me every
step, from company during chemo, to cleaning, meal prep, laundry...and emotional
support. My friends at Mott were exceptional! They filled for me every day, and were
endlessly patient with my ups and downs. Everyone should have a support system like
this! One other valuable support was my little ginger and white Cocker spaniel, Kelly.
She was my chemo buddy who stayed with me all day, every day!
One bittersweet support was my 90-year-old dad, who died while I was still in
radiation. About 3 weeks before his death, he told me he wanted to come and live with
me so he could “take care” of me. (He was the only person I showed my bald head to!)
So, what are the take-aways from my story? First, breast cancer is treatable and highly
survivable. You just need to follow through with regular screenings—your own screens
as well as those of your primary provider. Girls/women need to start early, especially if
there is a family history. Don’t forget that men get breast cancer, too!
Second, your health team matters. You need to have medical, surgical, and radiation
oncologists that you trust and can relate to. I still have my mammograms and visit the
nurse practitioner from my medical team at UM every year. I trust them.
Education, even at the Readers Digest level, is important. Learn all you can about early
detection and treatment. Statistics show that about one in 4 women will develop
breast cancer in their lifetime. As my sisters said, I ruined their gene pool!
10
Finally, enough can’t be said about the support of family and friends - that’s how you
make it through. You can try to make it up to them when it’s all over!
It’s a long year of diagnosis, treatment, and follow-ups, but, then it’s over and life starts
to return to normal. And 18 years later...
My thoughts and prayers are with all survivors and those currently in treatment. May
those who were not able to survive Rest in Peace. My prayers are for you, too.
Carol Nielson
Carol Nielson is a retired faculty member of the Cosmetology department at Mott
Community College. This story was written and published with permission by Carol
Nielson.
In 2002, I found out that I had Ductal Carcinoma In-situ after a routine mammogram.
Neither the doctor, nor I, could feel the lump. If it wasn’t for the mammogram, I may
not have been diagnosed until it had progressed into a more invasive form of breast
cancer.
“Education, even at the Readers Digest level, is important. Learn all you can about
early detection and treatment. Statistics show that about one in 4 women will
develop breast cancer in their lifetime.”
11
After surgery and taking Tamoxifen for five years, I
thought I had beaten it. However, in 2014, after
another routine (but necessary) mammogram, they
found it in the other side. After surgery and radiation
treatments, I have been cancer free!
It is so important to support the Making Strides
Against Breast Cancer movement by donating
whatever you can afford. Your help allows more
research, support, and life-saving mammograms. I
was very fortunate to have access to screening,
doctors, and treatments, but so many others do not.
Please donate to help save lives!
“It is so important to support the Making Strides Against Breast Cancer
movement by donating whatever you can afford. Your help allows more
research, support, and life-saving mammograms.”

Stories of Hope from People with Lymphoma
By: Meghan Gutierrez, Chief Executive Officer, Lymphoma Research Foundation 

As we approach the annual meeting of the American Society of Hematology (ASH), we turn our attention to the latest advances in the care and treatment for people with lymphoma. The annual meeting is one of the world’s leading conferences for hematologists/ oncologists and researchers working in the area of the hematologic malignancies, offering a crucial forum for sharing and discussing new developments.

More than 20,000 researchers are expected to attend this year’s meeting, convening in Atlanta to discuss cutting edge research. We are pleased to report that among them will be many Lymphoma Research Foundation (LRF) Scientific Advisory Board members and grantees. 

The meeting also represents a time of great excitement – and hope – for people who have been personally impacted by lymphoma. 

Patients and caregivers are interested not only in scientific advances being made, but the impact these innovations with have on their treatment and care. To understand their impact, LRF will hold a national teleconference in January to provide key updates from the ASH meeting. To learn more or register to participate, please click here. 

In addition to learning about new treatment options, it is important to understand the patient experience, including their goals for treatment and previous experience with other therapies. The peer support that patients find from one another in sharing these experiences can be incredibly valuable and empowering.

In fact, the single most popular section of the LRF website is our Stories of Hope profiles, where patients are able to share their personal lymphoma journey with others. Today it is my honor to highlight some of these stories, and invite you to learn more about these extraordinary survivors and the lymphoma patient experience, in their own words.

Bob, Mantle Cell Lymphoma Survivor

“Receiving a cancer diagnosis is never something that you can be prepared for; I drove home in a state of shock. I had no conception of what mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) was, and I didn't know how to deal with it. But luckily, I had a good team of doctors…

“We followed the treatment plan that my doctors made, which resulted in complete remission. Looking back on it, I would have asked more questions in the beginning. At the time, I only asked if their treatment plan was going to help me.”

“My initial diagnosis was stage IV, grade 3a follicular lymphoma, which meant I would need to have extensive treatment. Because of the treatment I received for my first cancer, this was complicated because I had already had the maximum life-time allowed dosage of the current treatment I was undergoing.

"After I went for a second opinion, my cancer was graded differently. I think the benefit of seeking a second opinion was huge because the physician I saw for the second opinion was a lymphoma expert.”

Bruce, Diffuse Large B-Cell Lymphoma Survivor

“While I was still in treatment, I attended my first Lymphoma Research Foundation (LRF) Lymphoma Walk and it was truly life-changing. I met so many survivors who inspired me immensely. I knew once I was in remission that I wanted to be that inspiration for others too.

"I have organized a Zumbathon, a bracelet drive, and a fundraising dinner to support my Lymphoma Walk team Medley's Soldiers.

"I remember my first walk and how weak I was, which made it all the more important for me to complete the walk. After all, it is not how you start, but how you finish that really matters.”

Read Bruce’s entire Story of Hope.
Desirée

At the age of 38, Desirée A. H. Walker was diagnosed with breast cancer, which recurred at age 47. For many who have had to fight breast cancer, Desirée serves as an advocate for patients by openly speaking about her diagnoses to audiences nationally and internationally. The core of her message is to encourage patients to truly know their body and feel empowered to steward self, mind, body and soul.
Extremely active in the cancer community, Desirée, through SHARE’s Side by Side Program, trains medical students and doctors on how to deliver disappointing news and passionately supports the importance of patient-doctor communication. She volunteers with the Young Survival Coalition as President, Board of Directors. She is a member of the National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship’s Cancer Policy Advocacy Team inaugural Steering Committee, the NCI’s Cancer Prevention and Control Central Institutional Review Board; the NCI SWOG Recruitment and Retention and Patient Advocate Committees in addition to Diversity, Inclusion, Belonging Strategic Work Group. Desirée is also a member of the Society for Integrative Oncology Patient Advocate and Research Committees in addition to the Health Equity, Inclusion & Belonging Task Force. Desirée is a former member of the CDC’s Advisory Council on Breast Cancer in Young Women.

Desirée has given countless talks, including “Spirituality and Cancer” at CancerCare’s Living with Cancer conference and the Canadian Association for Psychosocial Oncology annual conference. She has served as a panelist and has provided a patient advocate perspective at AACR’s Addressing Advocacy at the Bench: COVID-19 Vaccines: Patient Advocates as Trusted Sources of Information, NCCS’ annual CPAT, SXSW’s International Women’s Day event, the FDA/OCE Educational Series – Conversations in Cancer, MSK’s National Minority Cancer Awareness events, AAADV Annual Meeting, The Cornell Center for Health Equity’s Tri-Institutional Symposium on Health Equity, the 12th and 13th AACR Conference on the Science of Cancer Health Disparities and the FDA’s session “Building and Inclusive Cancer Community” at AACR Annual Meeting. Desirée has been a guest blogger for WebMD, ASCO’s Cancer.Net and the Department of Defense’s Breast Cancer Research Program.

Desirée has appeared in the media on numerous occasions including “The Breakfast Club” with DJ Envy, Angela Yee and Charlamagne Tha God. She is featured in Conquer Cancer Foundation’s Your Stories mini-podcast, Susan G. Komen’s “Know Your Girls” campaign, the Ralph Lauren 20th and 21st Anniversary Pink Pony campaign and The Conduit’s podcast: “Don’t Forget About Love”. Desirée facilitates support groups for women of African descent who were diagnosed with either breast or ovarian cancer.

She is a graduate of the National Breast Cancer Coalition’s Project LEAD® and AACR S-SP program. As a patient advocate, she’s attended the AACR Annual Mtg. and the Science of Cancer Health Disparities in Racial/Ethnic Minorities and the Medically Underserved conferences and numerous other national and international conferences. Desirée has been a reviewer for the DoD’s CDMRP, PCORI, Cornell Center for Health Equity and the Conquer Cancer Foundation. As a patient advocate, she brings her experience to a team of cancer researchers at Columbia University’s Mailman School of Public Health, the University of Wisconsin-Madison and Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.

Desirée’s diagnoses motivated her to become a patient advocate to share her talents and aid diverse communities. She uses her platform to be a voice for the voiceless and pay forward by educating and empowering people around the world.

Skyler Taylor’s cancer journey was a lesson in self-advocacy. Despite being told by his primary care doctor that an abnormality was of no concern, Skyler, a sophomore in college and aspiring physician, knew it was alarming. He later discussed his discovery with another doctor, which led to a testicular cancer diagnosis that eventually metastasized to his lungs.
Skyler asked specific questions at doctors’ visits, having researched the survival rate, treatment options and developing an understanding of what he would eventually endure. It was daunting, but he knew that testicular cancer is highly curable in young patients and felt prepared to undergo treatment while finishing college. Cancer was merely an obstacle for him to overcome.

After receiving his treatment plan, Skyler felt comfortable telling his entire family about his diagnosis. His parents, siblings, grandparents, then-girlfriend, who is now his wife, and her parents visited him during chemotherapy. Skyler shadowed his surgical urologist and oncologist, each of whom helped guide him toward medical school. Today, Skyler is studying internal medicine with plans to go into oncology.

When Skyler completed treatment, he knew advocacy would make his hope of impacting patients’ lives beyond medicine a reality. He got involved with NCCS while searching for volunteer opportunities in the cancer community. Skyler appreciates NCCS’s unique focus on care after and between treatments, unlike many other organizations. In 2019, he attended NCCS’s Cancer Policy and Advocacy Team (CPAT) symposium in Washington D.C. There, he received advocacy training before speaking with his representative and senators on Capitol Hill about cancer survivorship legislation. Skyler also used advocacy skills while meeting with local elected officials in Springfield, Illinois. “It feels good to impact so many people and to advocate for these changes,” he said.

Skyler savors each moment and each day for what they are. His cancer diagnosis motivated him to have a better outlook on life, inspired him always to find something to be happy about, and helped him realize that not everything is guaranteed to have a desirable outcome. Most importantly, he learned the value of advocacy. “If you can’t advocate for yourself, it’s beneficial to have a family member or close friend who can during doctors’ visits and time in the hospital,” he said.


Erin has been a cancer survivor for over 47 years. Diagnosed with Hodgkin Lymphoma at age 15, Erin “beat the odds” and went on to pursue a college career as a pre-med student, obtain a Master’s degree in Social Work, marry and raise a family of four children – all after being told that she would probably die as a young adult. She is the co-founder and Executive Director of “Hodgkin’s International” – a non-profit organization that supports long-term Hodgkin’s survivors all over the world.
Her personal and professional priority is to empower her fellow Hodgkin’s survivors through connection, education, and advocacy. Erin exemplifies the concept of “thriving, not just surviving.” She is known for pouring her heart and soul into every day.

Though battling numerous late effects of her earlier treatment, including heart and lung disease, Erin has (to date) completed 7 marathons and many smaller races. Five of those marathons were in New York City, where she ran with “Fred’s Team” at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center to raise funds for Pediatric Cancer research. In those five marathons Erin raised over $100K for the hospital.

Erin is also a writer with the “Visible Ink” program at Sloan-Kettering. She has had everal of her stories appear in their written anthologies, including two that were chosen for staged readings. In addition, Erin is a 2019 NCCS Elevate Ambassador alumnus and recently participated in an NCCS webinar on coping with stress and anxiety during COVID-19.

Loretta

Everything that happens to us is not for us to keep. It’s for us to figure out a way to give back. We must figure out a way to help other people. How do I take this hurt, pain, and discomfort and channel it in a way to help others?

When Loretta Herring’s mother was diagnosed with lung cancer in 1996, she and her four sisters asked themselves, “How do we deal with our mom being sick with a disease that blindsided us?” They felt lost and overwhelmed by their mother’s weight loss, hair loss, and the fact that she was constantly sick. They needed answers, but there were none; they needed support, but there weren’t many groups for Black patients. Loretta and her sisters’ belief that no one should have to go through cancer alone inspired them to launch the Cancer Awareness Network for Children in 1997, a nonprofit organization geared toward eliminating the fears associated with a cancer diagnosis through free, quarterly workshops and luncheons.

Loretta’s ability to encourage others throughout cancer diagnoses was put to the test when a routine mammogram led to a stage zero breast cancer diagnosis in 2010. She felt devastated and afraid. She recalled losing her mother and cousin only two years after their diagnoses. For her, cancer meant one thing: death. But with the immense support of her sisters and friends, the strength she drew from the tenacity of other cancer survivors, and – most importantly – her faith, Loretta realized that she needed to channel her hurt, pain, and discomfort in a way to help others. The fight was on, and she was determined to win!

Through her work with the Department of Defense, Loretta served for six years as a Consumer Peer Reviewer for breast cancer research under the University of Alabama at Birmingham, which led to her involvement in cancer organizations – including NCCS. While Loretta is grateful for all she’s accomplished as an advocate, she’s most grateful for NCCS. What sets this organization apart from others is the staff who truly care about survivors and their communities. “I haven’t seen this support on a local level anywhere else,” Loretta said. “Once you go home, NCCS will reach out to ask what you’re doing and how they can help.” NCCS connects advocates and ambassadors with other organizations, while building upon the work they’re already doing. When NCCS asked Loretta to serve as an Elevate Ambassador, she took her knowledge and training to give back to her community.

With data provided by NCCS, Loretta set out to develop the Telehealth Service Program, whose mission is to bridge the gap between elderly cancer patients and technology. The COVID-19 pandemic highlighted the need for electronic communications to participate in virtual meetings, doctors’ visits, and conversations with family. Unfortunately, many senior cancer patients in Loretta’s community, Birmingham, AL, either didn’t know how to use technology or didn’t own a computer or tablet. She decided to address this and conduct step-by-step, in-home trainings on equipment to increase their knowledge of telehealth services and build their confidence in the virtual world.

Loretta didn’t know where this journey would take her when she began advocating for her mother 24 years ago – but thanks to her own diagnosis, the world opened before her eyes. Hearing those dreaded words, “You have cancer,” gave her the opportunity to learn the full impact of advocacy, research, and fundraising. Loretta’s mission is to give back to members of her community by sharing her insights as a survivor, empowering others, and building a better future for all cancer patients!


Doris received a life-changing diagnosis of inflammatory breast cancer in 2007. She became very involved with shaping the concept of survivorship care at the center where she received treatment and co-founded its mentorship program. She also created community events to educate, encourage, and empower people with cancer.
When she moved from the East Coast to rural South Dakota, she asked the local cancer care center what resources they had for survivorship care and they said, “Relay for Life.” She then took everything she learned about quality cancer care to become her local center’s first-ever Survivorship Community Outreach Liaison.

She is a 2019 NCCS Elevate Ambassador alumnus and was also invited to serve on the highly-esteemed steering committee for the South Dakota Comprehensive Cancer Coalition.

Aside from being a powerful advocate, public speaker (check out her TEDx talk, “Cancer Survivorship: Finding a New Normal”), blogger, educator and encourager on issues facing cancer survivors, Doris is a wife, mother, empty-nester, survivor of life, and coffee lover. She co-manages a local health food store—where she hosts survivorship workshops, of course.
Read Less
Randy
Randall “Randy” Broad was diagnosed with Stage III non-small cell lung cancer NSCLC) in 2008. Following his “deemed inoperable” surgery, the surgeon prognosed a shortened future and said, “You best get your things in order.” With this directive, Randy set about “re-ordering” his life by re-prioritizing his values.
With a shortened warranty given on the front end, the cancer journey led Randy to chronicle key learnings. The original goal, to provide his kids a reference to some of life’s more cherished and meaningful experiences, became an Amazon bestseller, It’s an Extraordinary Life – Don’t Miss It.

The book has since opened the door to the world of professional speaking and full-time health care advocacy. Randy’s takeaway from this experience was to realize how much people engage by listening to stories—real life stories that touch on the fabric of life.

Randy also created and produces the podcast C-Sessions. The premise of the program is to improve communication on both sides of the stethoscope to improve cancer patient outcomes. Available on your favorite podcast listening network.

Randy has been an NCCS CPAT member since 2016. In 2018, he represented NCCS at a press conference on the importance of the Affordable Care Act, hosted by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s office.
Read Less
Xenia
Xenia doesn’t hold back when she refers to her cancer as a traumatic experience. She was diagnosed with endometrial cancer at 31 and underwent treatment for a year, which included high doses of steroids. After almost two years of remission, Xenia’s cancer returned and had begun to spread to her uterus. With her oncologist’s recommendation, Xenia underwent a radical hysterctemy at age 34.
“No google searches or consultations with an oncologist or nurse practitioner can prepare a young woman for what her body will experience during the months that follow,” says Xenia.

Xenia felt out of control. She did not know how to would react emotionally and felt like a stranger in her own skin. Nothing made sense to her and life did not return to normal – everything fell apart and she hit rock bottom.

Two years after Xenia’s surgery she found a running group that connected other cancer warriors called, “Cancer to 5k.” Not only did Xenia take part in the training, she also participated in a program where survivors could walk/run/commute from Baltimore, MD to Key West, FL and visit various cancer centers along the way. During the journey, Xenia met lifelong friends. They were supportive of Xenia, cried when she cried, and laughed at all the idiosyncrasies that can occur during cancer treatment. Most importantly, they understood her.

When Xenia completed her goal race, friends began asking her when the next one would be. Thus, one 5K turned into a 15K. Then came the ultimate “Why not?”—the chance to run the NYC Marathon. She accepted the challenge and accomplished the marathon.

“No one knows how everything will turn out. All I can control is my training schedule and frame of mind. I conquered cancer—what’s 26.3 miles?” – Xenia

Xenia believes in finding an activity that makes survivors rediscover the parts of their bodies that cancer silenced. Xenia is her district’s legislative representative for the American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network and is an active volunteer with the Ulman Foundation based in Baltimore. Xenia is also a 2019 NCCS Elevate Ambassador alumnus.

In addition to advocacy, Xenia is a practicing art therapist in New York City and co-hosts a mental health-focused podcast, “Firefly and Phoenix.” She finished her first marathon—the New York City Marathon—in November, and is training for her second, while also managing her dog’s Instagram account @rupert_to_the_rescue.
Read Less
Wenora
WenoraWenora Johnson is a three-time cancer survivor and Lynch Syndrome patient. She is an enthusiastic advocate who works with many organizations to promote policy and research around cancer.
Wenora served as a consumer reviewer, nominated by NCCS, in the Congressionally Directed Medical Research Programs’ (CDMRP), Peer Reviewed Cancer Research Program (PRCRP). As a consumer reviewer, she was a full voting member (along with prominent scientists) at meetings to help determine how the $90 million appropriated by Congress for Fiscal Year 2019 will be spent on cancer research.

“As a Cancer Survivor and Patient Advocate, it was one of the most rewarding experiences I’ve participated in, especially knowing my participation will have a positive effect on the future and advancement of cancer research.” – Wenora

Consumer reviewers like Wenora represent the collective view of patients by preparing comments on the impact of the research on issues such as diagnosis, treatment, and quality of life.

She is a PCORI (Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute) Ambassador and Peer Reviewer, and she was recently selected as a member of the National Quality Forum’s Cancer Standing Committee.

As a Lynch Syndrome patient, Wenora also advocates for genetic testing and awareness. She serves on various panels and review boards to provide extensive feedback on her role as a patient and research advocate with organizations such as CAP (College of American Pathologist); Clinical Trials Curator for Fight CRC; FORCE (Facing Our Risk of Cancer Empowered) Volunteer and Board Member; a Consumer Reviewer for the DoD Peer Reviewed Cancer Research Program; a PCORI Ambassador and Clinical Trials Panel Member; CPAT Member for the National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship (NCCS); CMS TEP Panel Member to review Medicare/Medicaid guidelines; NRG Oncology Patient Advocate Committee Member and the AACR Scientist~Survivor Program – presenting a poster on financial toxicities and disparities among minority patients and a National Quality Forum (NQF) Cancer Standing Committee Member. She has written patient advocate blogs and participated as a guest speaker/panelist.

Wenora at CPAT Symposium
Wenora with other CPAT Members at the 2018 NCCS CPAT Symposium.


Read Less
Hillary
The first time Hillary’s best friend Katie heard “you have cancer,” she was sitting in the doctor’s office with her. They were both 28 years old. Hillary collapsed, weeping in anticipation of what they were about to embark on.
Hillary studied breast cancer extensively while she earned her PhD and served as a postdoctoral fellow. As a research scientist, she thought her years of education and focus on breast cancer would prepare her for Katie’s diagnosis. Instead, she felt completely lost.

Hillary was amazed at how little she had learned about how cancer affects the person as a whole during her years of training. She could tell you how Katie’s HER2 protein makes cells grow and divide, but she didn’t know the side effects of the therapies that blocked this process or the normal course of treatment.

“I noticed that working with advocates was transforming my research, and ultimately my career, as I began to factor in the human aspect of cancer into my research. More importantly, I realized that I was one of a few research scientists engaging in this kind of patient-based work.” –

Over time, Katie’s treatments came to an end, but Hillary continued working with patient advocates online and in person. More importantly, she realized that she was one of a few research scientists engaging in this kind of patient-based work. This led Hillary to explore more ways to improve relationships between patient advocates and researchers.

“My hope is that many more research scientists, and not just those who hear the words ‘you have cancer’ will engage with cancer advocates early and often, recognize the value of these relationships, and incorporate that knowledge into their research.” – Hillary Stires, PhD

Not everyone confronts cancer as closely as Hillary’s best friend, but she is grateful for the catalyst it was in her life and work to help facilitate more relationships between patient advocates and research scientists to improve cancer research.

Hillary is a 2019 NCCS Elevate Ambassador alumnus and presented a TEDx talk on the value of science communication.
Read Less
Richard and Lynne
Richard wasn’t expecting to meet someone as special as Lynne in his hospice bereavement group. His wife of 36 years passed away, and little did he know, so had Lynne’s husband of 36 years. Richard and Lynne share other things in common, such as cancer survivorship, their love for traveling, and their love for one another.
Richard is a cancer survivor and widower who is especially fortunate to have Lynne alongside his cancer journey. Together, Richard and Lynne attend health appointments, give each other emotional support, advocate for quality cancer care on Capitol Hill, and face life’s challenges and joys with love and loyalty.
“I love his ability to share his past openly and honestly, making me feel a part of it. His devotion to advocacy for cancer survivorship is encouraging and motivating for me. He is ethical, genuine, and loyal. Most importantly, I love that Richard is my friend, my companion, my supporter, my pal. He has given me the opportunity to love again, love life again, and be grateful for the future while still remembering the past.”

– Lynne, Caregiver, NCCS Advocate

“Lynne is my companion and soulmate. She has my best interests at heart and I can depend on her to always be there for me! She is my compass — there to remind me that it is always the right time to do the right thing and to strive to be the best person that I can be. What I love most about Lynne is our indescribable bond.”

– Richard, Cancer Survivor, NCCS Advocate
Read Less
Virgie and Martin
Virgie discovered her son’s cancer had recurred and had a 10% survival rate, over the phone. A modest and graceful woman, she found this life-altering, informal exchange to be one of the hardest moments of her son’s cancer journey. Although her son Martin, and the rest of the world, would never know anything bothered Virgie, including his cancer journey, she gave her son relentless faith, encouragement, hope, and fuel that he wore firmly during treatments. These traits were especially needed when they discovered Martin had a recurrence, following his initial remission.
Just like mother and son, Martin’s cancer was relentless. It exhausted Virgie to think about the time, energy, and worry this diagnosis required. It’s one of the reasons Martin and Virgie flew to a gaming conference in Las Vegas, by donation, prior to the beginning of his treatments. Cancer may demand a lot
– but joy and memories aren’t always it.

Intelligent and optimistic, Martin shared his experience at NCCS’ annual CPAT symposium while Virgie smiled with pride. The entire room of cancer survivors and advocates felt his joy, optimism, and strength. Virgie and Martin planted seeds of inspiration by making a crowd with heavy burdens feel lighter.

Virgie and Martin believe in the importance of community – which is why they advocate.
Read Less
Heidi
Over 15 years ago, Heidi was advised by countless doctors to terminate her pregnancy when she was diagnosed with breast cancer. She would not allow the diagnosis, which took her mother’s life, to also seal the fate of her unborn baby boy. That is why she packed up her family every weekend to stay in another state’s hotel for treatments with a doctor that gave her and her baby the chance to live.
Heidi’s teenage daughter, Catie, remembers those days on the road vividly. The memories of her mom fighting for her life, and her brother’s, shaped who she is now. Bright and courageous, Catie researches the lawmakers who advocate for quality cancer care and refers to her local officials with ownership, saying, “my representative.” She knows who the lawmakers are, what they stand for, and even better — she knows what she stands for.

Catie accompanied Heidi to NCCS’ Cancer Policy and Advocacy Team (CPAT) annual symposium and found her own voice as an advocate. It was no surprise that when she was stopped in the halls of Capitol Hill by countless lawmakers, or when she was randomly chosen from a large crowd to stand on stage next to Speaker Pelosi, she faced it with fearless enthusiasm. Now, a memory and keepsake for Heidi, NCCS, and you. Catie has now joined Heidi three times to lobby lawmakers on behalf of cancer survivors.

The future is full of hope, which is Heidi, alongside her family, advocating for a better one.



